.TH CMT 3 "2026-01-04" "CMT 1.0" "C Library Extensions"
.
.SH NAME
CMT \- modular and portable C library extension
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include "CMT/CMT.H"
.br
.B #include "CMT/CMT.HPP"
.RI " (for C++)"
.
.SS Optional Modular Include
Define
.B INCL_CMT_<MODULE>
macros before including
.B CMT.H
to selectively include individual modules.
.
.nf
#define INCL_CMT_FAR
#include "CMT/CMT.H"
.fi
.
Multiple modules may be combined:
.
.nf
#define INCL_CMT_INLINE
#define INCL_CMT_OBJECT
#include "CMT/CMT.H"
.fi
.
.SS Optional Sectional Include
Define
.B INCL_CMT_<SECTION>
macros to include entire feature sections.
.
.nf
#define INCL_CMT_KEYWORDS
#include "CMT/CMT.H"
.fi
.
Multiple sections may be combined:
.
.nf
#define INCL_CMT_ATTRIBUTES
#define INCL_CMT_KEYWORDS
#define INCL_CMT_RAX
#include "CMT/CMT.H"
.fi
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
CMT is a modular, portable, header-only extension library for the C language.
It provides low-level utilities and language features omitted from the standard
C library while maintaining maximum compiler and platform compatibility.
.
.PP
CMT requires no build system integration and introduces no link-time
dependencies.
All functionality is provided through headers.
.
.SH SECTIONS AND MODULES
The following section-level include macros are currently supported:
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_ASM
Assembly-related features.
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_ATTRIBUTES
Compiler attributes.
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_CHECK_FEATURE
Feature-detection and capability macros.
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_ENVIRONMENTS
Environment- and platform-specific definitions.
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_FUNCTIONS
Standard library extensions.
.
.TP
.B INCL_CMT_KEYWORDS
Custom language keywords.
.
.SH DEFAULT BEHAVIOR
If no
.B INCL_CMT_...
macro is defined prior to including
.B CMT.H,
all sections and modules are included automatically.
.
.PP
Redundant macro definitions are permitted.
Defining a module that belongs to an already-included section has no effect
and produces no warnings or errors.
.
.SH NOTES
Sections and modules may be freely combined to tailor the library to the needs
of a particular project.
.
.PP
Iconography used by CMT is inspired by the Windows 2000 visual style.
All icons are original works and are not affiliated with or endorsed by
Microsoft.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR CMT_ALIGN (3),
.BR CMT_ARCHITECTURE (3),
.BR CMT_ASM (3),
.BR CMT_CLEAR_INSTRUCTION_CACHE (3),
.BR CMT_COMMA_OPERATOR (3),
.BR CMT_CPU (3),
.BR CMT_DLL (3),
.BR CMT_FAR (3),
.BR CMT_IGNORE_VAR (3),
.BR CMT_INLINE (3),
.BR CMT_INLINE_ASM (3),
.BR CMT_KNR_STYLE (3),
.BR CMT_LOCAL (3),
.BR CMT_NORETURN (3),
.BR CMT_OBJECT (3),
.BR CMT_PACK (3),
.BR CMT_PREFETCH (3),
.BR CMT_RAX (3),
.BR CMT_READ_FILE (3),
.BR CMT_REGPARM (3),
.BR CMT_ROM (3),
.BR CMT_STDCALL (3),
.BR CMT_STRINGIFICATION (3),
.BR CMT_THREAD (3),
.BR CMT_TOKEN_PASTING (3),
.BR CMT_TRY_CATCH (3),
.BR CMT_TYPES (3),
.BR CMT_UNUSED (3),
.BR CMT_VA_ARGS (3)
.
.SH AUTHOR
Teoman Deniz
.MT te.odenizgml@gmail.com
.ME
